utils/README.md, before:

# Utils

A handful of JS utilities that allow pages to load only what they need.

## API

A basic utility for API/webpage interaction. For the moment, this page has no need to extend beyond GET requests.

This also has built-in processing to convert responses into native JS objects where possible. For JSON responses, this is provided trivially by JS. For YAML responses, [Jeremy Fa's yaml.js](https://github.com/jeremyfa/yaml.js) (version 0.3.0) is used.

### Usage

Invoke the async function `getURL` with arguments `<URL>` and optionally `<process_as>`:

```
const data = await getURL(myURL, api.YAML);
```

`<process_as>` may be any of:

- api.UNDEFINED (default) - return resultant data as plaintext
- api.JSON - parse JSON into native JS object
- api.YAML - parse YAML into native JS object

## Drag-and-drop

A simple drag-and-drop implementation.

### Usage

Include `/utils/drag-and-drop.js`. Invoke `make_children_draggable()` with arguments `parent` (an HTMLElement) and optionally `set_id` (a name to identify the drag-and-drop collection) and `callback` (a function called when the drag is completed).

The callback function can access (via event.details) the following attributes:

- `set` (set id)
- `index` for the new index within the order

## Flex-Grid

A flexbox-based alternative to CSS grids. This is to allow filling items in the direction the container can grow instead of across this direction.

### Background

In CSS, `grid` displays can only fill in the direction that they will not be growing (see [this StackOverflow thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44092529/make-grid-container-fill-columns-not-rows) for another explanation). Essentially, if we define a grid with 2 columns and an arbitrary number of rows, it will only be filled like this:

```
1  2
3  4
5  6
...
```

If we instead want the order to flow down these columns, but keep the remaining behaviour, we can use a workaround of defining the number of required rows. This allows `grid-auto-flow: column` to know when to start putting items in the next column. This is tolerable up until the number of items in the grid becomes dynamic - suddenly, we need an arbitrary number of rows as well.

At this point, we need a JS solution to dynamically set the number of rows. We can build our solution with either the grid or flexbox framework in mind - I've opted for flexbox because it looks better for my original use case.

### Usage

Add the `flexgrid-column-container` or `flexgrid-row-container` class to the parent element.

**For a pure CSS solution**, style this element and set `--flexgrid-wrap-at` to an appropriate CSS length value - this effectively translates to the `max-height` or `max-width` of the container. Include `/assets/css/flex-grid.css`.

**For a JS-integrated solution**, instead set `--flexgrid-num-lines` to the number of desired columns (if using column container) or rows (if using row container). Include `/utils/flex-grid.js` - it will automatically import the required stylesheet.

## Modal

Basic of making modals responsive. Displays/hide overlays and modals together, and adds cancel functionality when `<Esc>` is pressed or when the overlay is clicked. The CSS component is part of the site default.

### Usage

Create a div with the `modal` class and an id. Optionally add another div with the `modal-overlay` class and a `data-modal-overlay-for` attribute set to the modal's id.

```
<div class="modal-overlay" data-modal-overlay-for="homebrew-char-modal" />
<div id="homebrew-char-modal" class="modal character-editor">
```

This will not appear on the page by default, but can be revealed with the `showModal(modal_id)` function. The open modal will be closed when the `closeModal()` function is invoked (this includes clicking the overlay and pressing escape.)

Commit message:

BotC: Add Image field
Provide sufficient warning before accessing custom URLs entered by the
user (TODO: protect when loading scripts).

Added NONE and STATUS processing modes for API requests, and a
confirmation of whether the page should request unsafe URLs.

Added status code util to the image field to verify that it can
successfully get whatever the URL points to, as well as warn about
redirects.

utils/README.md, after:

# Utils

A handful of JS utilities that allow pages to load only what they need.

## API

A basic utility for API/webpage interaction. For the moment, this page has no need to extend beyond GET requests.

This also has built-in processing to convert responses into native JS objects where possible. For JSON responses, this is provided trivially by JS. For YAML responses, [Jeremy Fa's yaml.js](https://github.com/jeremyfa/yaml.js) (version 0.3.0) is used.

### Usage

Invoke the async function `getURL` with arguments `<URL>` and optionally `<follow_redirects>` and `<process_as>`:

```
const data = await getURL(myURL, api.YAML);
```

`<process_as>` may be any of:

- api.UNDEFINED (default) - return resultant data as plaintext
- api.NONE - return resultant data as JS Response object
- api.STATUS - return response.status
- api.JSON - parse JSON into native JS object
- api.YAML - parse YAML into native JS object

## Drag-and-drop

A simple drag-and-drop implementation.

### Usage

Include `/utils/drag-and-drop.js`. Invoke `make_children_draggable()` with arguments `parent` (an HTMLElement) and optionally `set_id` (a name to identify the drag-and-drop collection) and `callback` (a function called when the drag is completed).

The callback function can access (via event.details) the following attributes:

- `set` (set id)
- `index` for the new index within the order

## Flex-Grid

A flexbox-based alternative to CSS grids. This is to allow filling items in the direction the container can grow instead of across this direction.

### Background

In CSS, `grid` displays can only fill in the direction that they will not be growing (see [this StackOverflow thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44092529/make-grid-container-fill-columns-not-rows) for another explanation). Essentially, if we define a grid with 2 columns and an arbitrary number of rows, it will only be filled like this:

```
1  2
3  4
5  6
...
```

If we instead want the order to flow down these columns, but keep the remaining behaviour, we can use a workaround of defining the number of required rows. This allows `grid-auto-flow: column` to know when to start putting items in the next column. This is tolerable up until the number of items in the grid becomes dynamic - suddenly, we need an arbitrary number of rows as well.

At this point, we need a JS solution to dynamically set the number of rows. We can build our solution with either the grid or flexbox framework in mind - I've opted for flexbox because it looks better for my original use case.

### Usage

Add the `flexgrid-column-container` or `flexgrid-row-container` class to the parent element.

**For a pure CSS solution**, style this element and set `--flexgrid-wrap-at` to an appropriate CSS length value - this effectively translates to the `max-height` or `max-width` of the container. Include `/assets/css/flex-grid.css`.

**For a JS-integrated solution**, instead set `--flexgrid-num-lines` to the number of desired columns (if using column container) or rows (if using row container). Include `/utils/flex-grid.js` - it will automatically import the required stylesheet.

## Modal

Basic of making modals responsive. Displays/hide overlays and modals together, and adds cancel functionality when `<Esc>` is pressed or when the overlay is clicked. The CSS component is part of the site default.

### Usage

Create a div with the `modal` class and an id. Optionally add another div with the `modal-overlay` class and a `data-modal-overlay-for` attribute set to the modal's id.

```
<div class="modal-overlay" data-modal-overlay-for="homebrew-char-modal" />
<div id="homebrew-char-modal" class="modal character-editor">
```

This will not appear on the page by default, but can be revealed with the `showModal(modal_id)` function. The open modal will be closed when the `closeModal()` function is invoked (this includes clicking the overlay and pressing escape.)
